# 010 Editor Manual - Status Bar

**Source:** [`manual/StatusBar.htm`](../manual/StatusBar.htm) (SweetScape 010 Editor manual mirror).

## Page header
Status Bar

## Section headings
- **Starting Offset**
- **Manage Reloading Modified Files**

## Summary (lead paragraphs)
The Status Bar, located along the bottom of the application, contains useful information about the current file and the current status of the editor. The Status Bar is divided up into a number of panels and most of these panels can be clicked to either change how information is viewed in the editor or to control what format data is displayed in. Different panels are displayed depending upon which type of file is being edited and the following shows a typical status bar for a Text file on top:

The panels E, F, G, H, I and J may appear or disappear depending upon which Edit As is selected in panel E and the panels for a Hex file are shown in the above figure on the bottom. Two special panels also appear in the status bar but only in special cases: the OFFSET panel and the Manage Reloading Modified Files panel. The following lists the usage of each panel and when it appears:

File Position / Selection Start (B) - When no bytes are selected, this panel shows the current address of the cursor in the file. When bytes are selected, this panel displays 'Start:' followed by the starting address of the selection. The address can display the current byte number, sector number, line number or short number and the address can be displayed in hex format, decimal format, or octal format. Set the address format using the ' View > Status Bar > File Position Format ' menu option or left-click on the panel and select File Position Format . Left-click on this panel and select Goto to bring up the Goto bar, or left-click and select Copy Position to copy the current position to the clipboard.

ASCII - ASCII Character Set ANSI - ASCII+ANSI Character Set OEM - ASCII+OEM Character Set EBC - EBCDIC Character Set UNI - Unicode Character Set UTF8 - UTF-8 Character Set MAC - Macintosh Character Set ARA - Arabic Windows Character Set ARA-I - Arabic ISO Character Set BAL - Baltic Windows Character Set BAL-I - Baltic ISO Character Set CH-S - Chinese Simplified Character Set CH-T - Chinese Traditional Character Set CYR - Cyrillic Windows Character Set CYR-R - Cyrillic KOI8-R Character Set CYR-U - Cyrillic KOI8-U Character Set CYR-I - Cyrillic ISO Character Set EEUR - Eastern Europe Windows Character Set EEUR-I - Eastern Europe ISO Character Set GRE - Greek Windows Character Set GRE-I - Greek ISO Character Set HEB - Hebrew Windows Character Set HEB-I - Hebrew ISO Character Set JAP - Japanese Shift_JIS Character Set JAP-E - Japanese EUC-JP Character Set KOR - Korean EUC-KR Character Set THAI - Thai Character Set TURK - Turkish Windows Character Set TURK-I - Turkish ISO Character Set VIET - Vietnamese Character Set If the current file contains a Byte-Order Mark (BOM) this panel will contain ' +B ' after the character set name. The character set list and the text displayed in the status bar for each character set can be modified using the Character Set Options dialog. Left-clicking on this panel displays the ' View > Character Set ' menu with the addition of a Convert to menu which can be used to quickly convert the character set to other recently used character sets. Clicking the More menu option at the bottom of the Convert to menu brings up the Convert dialog box.

CRLF - DOS Linefeeds (CR+LF - 0x0D0A) LF - Unix Linefeeds (LF - 0x0A) CR - Macintosh Linefeeds (CR - 0x0D) NEL - Next Line (0x15 in EBCDIC or 0x0085 in Unicode) FF - Form Feed (0x000C in Unicode) LS - Line Separator (0x2028 in Unicode) PS - Paragraph Separator (0x2029 in Unicode) Left-click the panel to easily convert all the linefeeds in a file to a particular type. Click the 'Tools > Convert ' menu option to access the Convert dialog and other conversion options.

Endian (J) - (Hex or Unicode Only) - Indicates which endian is used to interpret the current file. LIT means little endian (e.g. Intel machines) and BIG means big endian (e.g. Motorola machines). See Introduction to Byte Ordering for more information. Left-click on this panel to toggle between big or little endian mode. A tool button for changing endian can also be displayed in the Tool Bar using ' View > Tool Bars > Endian '. 010 Editor can visually swap bytes in the Hex Editor Window without modifying the underlying data. This swapping only occurs in little endian mode and when swapping is enabled this panel will display LIT<> (see Swapping Bytes for more information). Clipboard (W) - A total of 10 clipboards are available for copying and pasting data. This field indicates which clipboard is currently selected. A icon means the default Windows clipboard is active and the numbers '1' through '9' indicate that a user clipboard is active. See Using the Clipboard for more information. Left-clicking this panel shows the ' Edit > Clipboard ' menu. Insert Mode (X) - Displays whether the editor is in Insert ( INS ), or Overwrite ( OVR ) mode. Press the Insert key or click this status bar panel to toggle between the two states. This mode is used when editing data in the editor or when pasting data from the clipboard (see Using the Text Editor , Using the Hex Editor and Using the Clipboard for more information). The cursor in the Editor Window will display as a thick line when in Overwrite mode or a thin line when in Insert mode. For long operations, a progress bar will usually be displayed in the Status Bar. In most cases, pressing the Esc key will cancel the operation.

When a custom starting address has been assigned to a file, the word OFFSET appears in the status bar as displayed above. Clicking on the OFFSET label shows a popup menu which can be used to change the starting address by clicking Set Starting Address . Clicking Clear Starting Address sets the starting address to zero.

010 Editor monitors if any files that are opened in the editor have been modified by external programs. If files have been modified a dialog offers the option to reload the file and see Reloading Changes for more information. The dialogs give the option to Always Reload a modified file, meaning the file will be continuously reloaded if any modifications are found, or Always Ignore a modified file, meaning all future changes are ignored. When Always Reload or Always Ignore is enabled for at least one file, the icon will appear in the status bar. Clicking on the icon shows the above dialog which allows Always Reload or Always Ignore to be turned off for each file. Click the Always Reload or Always Ignore checkbox beside each file to turn on or off reloading. Clicking the Always toggle in the top right turns on or off all toggles at the same time. Click OK to accept the current reload settings or Cancel to close the dialog.

## Notes
Machine-generated for navigation; figures, tables, and full `<pre>` examples remain in the `.htm`.